I want to go to
Jeremy Diamond is standing by in
Jaffa in Israel.
Our CNN military analyst
Cedric Layton,
and our global affairs
correspondent, Matthew Chance.
Jeremy, let me go to you first,
because we do have
the statement from the IDF.
basically saying they
they are responsible.
They carried out
what they called a targeted strike.
they will look
they were attacking, I think,
a number,
well, part of me
talking to strike in Beirut
on a commander,
part of me
of commander responsible
for the murder of the children in my some
it says at the moment
there are no changes in the homefront.
Command defensive guidelines.
What does that mean, Jeremy?
Well, effectively, the home
front guidelines
or the guidelines issued to civilians
in Israel to tell them effectively
what the risk
level is at this moment in terms of,
military action, it's to tell them
whether to cancel large gatherings,
to not go to school.
to be
within reach of a bomb shelter
at all times.
And in this case,
the Israeli military has decided
not to make any changes
to those guidelines, which indicates,
at least for the moment,
that they don't anticipate
that this will immediately escalate
any further than it already has.
But make no mistake,
that possibility is certainly
in the air tonight.
As we have seen, this very significant
Israeli strike
hit the southern suburbs
of the Lebanese capital, Deir,
which is notable in and of itself
for the location
given its proximity to Beirut.
But also in addition to that,
it is the fact that they are targeting
a senior commander in that area.
they say that this commander,
who they have not named in
this statement,
was responsible
for this rocket attack
that killed 12 children,
in the, Israel, controlled,
Golan Heights
in the Syrian Druze community
of marginal Shams.
It has been clear since this weekend
when that rocket attack took place,
when we saw the number
of civilians killed,
the fact that these were all children
who were killed as well,
it became immediately
clear that there was
a possibility of escalation.
And since then, we have heard
clear statements from Israeli officials
vowing that there would be
a severe response,
vowing that Hezbollah
would have a price to pay,
even as Hezbollah,
of course, denied responsibility
for this attack.
and so now we have finally seen
what shape
that response has taken
as the Israeli military,
in just the last couple of hours,
carried out this strike
and then very quickly confirmed it,
making clear that they wanted
to send a message
that, as the Israeli defense
minister says tonight,
a red line
was crossed by Hezbollah
in this rocket attack over the weekend.
And an Israeli response was narrative.
Thanks very much, Jeremy Diamond.
Let's go to Cedric Layton,
who is with us?
And Cedric,
I think it's fair to say
that many were expecting a response.
all expecting some sort of retaliation
for the Golan Heights attack.
What do you make of what we are learning?
This sound?
The IDF saying it was a targeted strike.
yes.
I think
that is really the key thing here.
And if it turns out to be true
that this was a drone strike
instead of a strike
with a manned aircraft,
that also goes to show
that the Israelis
were looking for a very precise action,
they wanted to do this
with a minimum of collateral damage
and that, you think commensurate
with some of the pressure
that the Israelis have probably received,
from the US as well
as other Western nations,
to minimize civilian casualties
in any type of,
response that they would make.
I think everybody expected them
to make this kind of a,
an effort,
this kind of a response in response
to what happened in Marshall Trump.
but the other thing that
they had to consider
was the fact that they needed
to also minimize
the possibility of civilian casualties.
Yeah.
Look,
this is a very dangerous moment, right?
This is not a war zone.
This is happening as we showed
our viewers streets of Beirut.
And that is absolutely terrifying.
We've heard in the last few minutes
from the Lebanese state media
that the strike was conducted
by road, by the dirt,
by drone that fired three missiles.
If we played the video
that we played at the top of the show,
my producers play that out.
From what we see in this video,
once we play it out.
Cedric,
I wonder whether you could tell us
in terms of
of the impact
we're hearing one casualty here.
What more can you
can you dissect from from the video
that we have seen so far,
the images here we go
to playing right now.
Right.
So when you look at
the destruction in this street,
this is commensurate
with a fairly low powered explosive.
you know, something
that on the order of
perhaps the 250 pound bomb or less,
I and I say more or less
with emphasis in the case,
because it would be far
greater destruction to the buildings
if a standard form
I would be used
would have been used
in this particular case.
And so, you see, you know, some of the
you know, obviously
there's building debris
middle of the street there,
some windows appear to be a appear
to have blown out,
and there does seem to be,
you know, a case
where they looked
at a very specific location
within a building,
to go after a very specific
individual target.
So that's what it looks like
to me at the present time.
And I see
these are live pictures right now.
and it does seem as if they're basically
in there
mopping up operation,
but they don't expect,
any secondary or tertiary attacks
after this one.
At least
that's what it looks like right now.
So do stay with us.
Let me go to our Matthew, Chance
and Matthew.
We look at we are in unknown territory.
Yes.
Israel's claim responsibility as we heard
from our Jeremy Diamond there.
But Hezbollah had said
previously, Matthew,
that would meet escalation
with escalation. Right.
speak to the significance
of this moment of the fear,
of course,
that this could widen
out the wider conflict.
Yeah, it's
I think I think the question here is,
is this the start of a broader
Israeli campaign in southern Lebanon,
or will it provoke a broader campaign
in southern Lebanon?
Or is it just,
you know, a very limited action,
that was undertaken in response
to those dreadful killings
in Mashal Shams in the in
the Golan Heights at the weekend
in which
those 12 children, teenagers as well,
were, were killed
and, and, you know,
the whole region is on a knife edge
trying to grapple with that question.
I can certainly tell you,
and I've been up to northern Israel
several times
since the October 7th attacks.
There's a great deal
of political pressure
inside northern Israel, inside Israel
and in northern Israel, particularly
to strike at Hezbollah,
to push that that group back
from the northern border of Israel,
it's under northern
Israel is under constant,
not just a constant
threat of missile attack,
but actually under constant missile
attack as well.
and it's led to whole communities
being evacuated.
They're not able to go back
into their homes.
That fright, fearful that what happened
in, in, you know, from Gaza
in southern Israel
could happen to them
in northern Israel as well.
So there's
enormous amount of political pressure
the government of Benjamin
Netanyahu is feeling
to strike at Hezbollah.
But that has to be balanced with the fact
that Israel is exhausted.
It is already engaged in a bitter
conflict in the south of the country,
inside Gaza,
and just doesn't
have the energy potentially,
it might have the means,
but doesn't actually have the energy
and the political
will to go full on into Lebanon
right now,
not whether it escalates
into something else.
It has a momentum of its own.
We will see.
But that is the
the issue we're confronted with tonight.
Yeah, indeed.
The concern is
how does
Hezbollah retaliate
if it indeed does retaliate to this?
as we have seen tit for tat before,
let me go to Ben
Wedeman, who is in Beirut for us.
Ben, just give us a sense
of what you are learning.
We're looking at these images
out of Beirut.
Streets are part of an ambulance.
We've seen some of the first scenes.
What are you learning?
from authorities
there and importantly,
about casualties at this stage.
Well, this strike happened
just before
8:00 in the evening, local time.
this is a time
when the streets are crowded
with people
and the neighborhood where it happened.
Tarek.
And in southern part
of Beirut
is a very crowded, populous neighborhood.
Now, that is where
many of Hezbollah's leaders
operate out of.
But that's also where
hundreds of thousands of civilians,
live as well.
Now we're
hearing from the National News Agency,
the official Lebanese news agency,
that at least one woman was killed
and several others injured.
There are reports in the local media
that,
hospitals in the area
are calling for donations,
of blood as well.
also,
I'm hearing
that people are lining up,
queuing up at petrol stations
to fill because,
this is an event that,
although it comes in a surprise
in terms of the time and the place,
the fact that it happened
was no surprise at all,
because it was widely expected
that there would be
some sort of Israeli
response to the attack
on the champs
in the Israeli occupied
Syrian Golan Heights that left 12,
people dead.
but, the other day,
I was speaking with the
foreign minister of Lebanon,
who told me
that they, the Lebanese government
had received
assurances through diplomatic channels,
that Beirut, the Beirut airport
and specifically
the southern suburbs of Beirut
would not be struck.
And that was their interpreter
of those assurances.
So clearly, those assurances,
don't amount
in much to much at this point.
Now, we know that, Secretary
General of Hezbollah,
Hassan Nasrallah, has said
time and time again
that striking Beirut
is crossing a red line.
However, on the 2nd of January of this
year, Israel
did launch a strike
that killed a senior Hamas leader,
also roughly in that area, as well.
So we'll have to simply wait
and see how Hezbollah
is going to respond.
But I know that organization well,
they are not
going to go quietly into the night.
There will be some sort of response,
from Hezbollah.
They have said they will meet escalation
with escalation.